---
title: "How the dashboard works"
description: "Learn how to navigate Netdata's preconfigured dashboard to get started exploring, visualizing, and troubleshooting in real time."
type: explanation
custom_edit_url: https://github.com/netdata/netdata/edit/master/docs/dashboard/how-dashboard-works.mdx
---

# How the dashboard works

Because Netdata montitoring and _troubleshooting_ platform, a dashboard with real-time, meaningful, and context-aware
charts is essential.

As soon as you [install Netdata](/docs/get-started.mdx), it autodetects hardware, OS, containers, services, and
applications running on your node and builds a preconfigured dashboard on a single, scrollable webpage. This page
features hundreds of charts, which are also preconfigured to save you time from learning a query language, all stacked
on top of one another to encourage exploration and help you visually identify connections between the metrics visualized
in different charts.

To maximize your post-installation Netdata experience, it's important to understand the core concepts and features of
Netdata's dashboard.

## Open the dashboard

Access Netdata's dashboard by navigating to `http://NODE:19999` in your browser, replacing `NODE` with either
`localhost` or the hostname/IP address of a remote node.

## Sections



## Charts


See [interact with charts](/docs/dashboard/interact-charts.mdx) for all the possible ways to interact with the charts on
your dashboard.

## Menu 


## Alarms




## Open and explore the dashboard



![Animated GIF of navigating to the
dashboard](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1153921/80825153-abaec600-8b94-11ea-8b17-1b770a2abaa9.gif)

[Netdata's dashboard](/docs/dashboard/how-dashboard-works.mdx) is a single page with hundreds of preconfigured charts
and thousands of metrics that update every second. Everything you see is autodetected and organized with zero
configuration required.

To see more charts, scroll down or use the **menu** on the right-hand side of the dashboard to navigate between
**sections**, which are groups of closely related charts.

![Animated GIF of using the menus and
submenus](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1153921/80832425-7c528600-8ba1-11ea-8140-d0a17a62009b.gif)

## Interact with charts

Every chart in the Netdata dashboard is [fully interactive](/docs/dashboard/interact-charts.mdx), and Netdata
synchronizes your interactions to help you understand exactly how a node behaved in any timeframe, whether that's
seconds or days.

![Animated GIF of the standard Netdata dashboard being manipulated and synchronizing
charts](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1153921/80839230-b034a800-8baf-11ea-9cb2-99c1e10f0f85.gif)

Hover over any chart to temporarily pause it and see the exact metrics values presented as different dimensions. Click
or tap stop the chart from automatically updating with new metrics, thereby locking it to a single timeframe.
Double-click it to resume auto-updating.

Let's cover two of the most important ways to interact with charts: panning through time and zooming.

To pan through time, **click and hold** (or touch and hold) on any chart, then **drag your mouse** (or finger) to the
left or right. Dragging to the right pans backward through time, while dragging to the left pans forward in time. Think
of it like pushing the current timeframe off the screen so you can see what came before or after.

To zoom, press and hold `Shift` or `Alt`, then use your mouse's scroll wheel, or a two-finger pinch if you're using a
touchpad.

## What's next?



### Further reading & related information

